thank you madam Speaker matter I wish to clarify
a few points first of all the reason why I
decided to focus my speech on construction constructive politics
because I thought there was an important issue that
we should look at that's what I say in my speech
syllabi is becoming more diversify there'll be different
views and moving forward how the government would do and
accommodate different views and different perspective as monopolies is
important for us to move forward together as one United
people and the other MPs on the workers party
will be talking about different issues you would never cover I
mean ranging from social issues social safety net
through Foreign Affair national security they will cover the full range of areas
and they buy we speak our job our focus on
constructive politics I thought it was an important
issue and of course it's important to also
understand what is the perspective our PAP in terms of
constructive politics and from what the plan ministers say it seems to me
that resmoke instructor dtheta on the top of the
PAP rather than constructive politics in terms of
the society that's moving forward and I have a
fun my endorsement to what the president I
say that we should look at the outcome
of constructive politics that is that we should be able to move forward together
despite the differences next is talking about the workers puppy pick topping on
foreign workers issue I say again I don't think we have thick plot
I have explained in this house of some
misunderstanding of the species that had big and in any case
I also know that when the PAP have to
make a policy uturn they call it policy shift I
don't know whether there is a sheep or
is of people I think the record will speak for itself
when we make a shift we acknowledge a shift
when the workers party changes position they pretend they haven't
that is a difference now as for delegating
responsibility for different parts of a budget speech to a different MPs that
entirely within mr Lawry accounts prerogative it's not for me
to suggest how he should conduct his affairs in the Workers Party
but there's a leader you do have a
responsibility to state where does the party stand on the big
issue somebody can take out look after health care somebody can take care of
transport somebody can spend all his time marking
Minister Hanks we care on education but where do you stand on what the government
is doing is the government doing right is it doing wrong
do you agree with the government do you have a better
view or do you abstain or you abstain from
abstaining
mr Liu chicken well um I think our position is quite clear
on many of these issues if the Prime Minister
wanted my view on what the government has been doing and whether he has
done well I'll say well we have soft some of the problems where the Prime
Minister has mentioned and the Workers Party MP also acknowledged in your speech
but also pointed out there are things that
is still work in progress and and the governor will have to focus
on and to make it better and to improve
so that is the position and I don't see the need for me
to totally sum up I think their MPs will be able to do in the
old view and to give their view and the eye
assessment and at the same time wherever possible
offer certain views and alternative suggestion to improve the
policies madam Speaker I am very grateful for the
extremely reasonable explanation from the member I hope he takes an equally reasonable
approach when he comes to election rallies because a Workers Party
approach has been to be extremely reasonable indeed
low profile and Parliament but come election time to turn into
Tigers and heroes madam Speaker I thank the Prime Minister
for praising the workers party's ability to fight
in the elections we have no intention to
hire a saw in Parliament
we seek the band aid for people to come to Parliament
to check against the government and we have Dundee
honestly and sincerely we have not done this face
into into a theatre that shows we are
responsible we will behave continuously as a rational and
responsible party and it members would I believe members will agree that
the Workers Party has been rational we are not
come here with some war policies or worse
objections we debate the policies we came up with
some suggestions but these are not bankrupting the government
or suggesting to use a
reserved election I think we also rational we don't
accuse the PAP of something that you cannot substantiate
or I know we can
sue so I think we are fine and
election these elections and I thank the Minister for
publicist for noting that we can finally I'm sure that we happy tend to
you are the government and you have been
the governing part for 50 years so you've got more much people talented
people than the Workers Party how can you say that we are
tiger and we are something else in Parliament I'm sure the PAP can equally be
bygones it's an eloquent explanation for why the
Workers Party has been inarticulate about many things
in a serious Parliament the government presents its
policies the opposition presents its alternatives the Workers Party
may not have alternatives on every issue you may not have a full
range of all the complexities of designing an HDTV
scheme or MediShield scheme you do have a
responsibility to say which direction are we going
and that direction has to be set clearly not to explain to the
PAP but to explain to Singaporeans what you stand for
and what you stand for cannot be what the PAP is doing and a little
bit better that means you have no stand
wherever the PAP is standing ask them to do better
that's easy I can do that too but where do you
stand where are we totally wrong where do you think
this is a completely different way to do things
better where do you think in principle we do not want Singapore to be like
this these are big issues which deserve to be
debated and not elided over and avoided in the house
and that is what a first world Parliament
should be about madam Speaker granulated say that the permanence is
reasonable to say that the workers party may not have come up we ever come
we ought alternative policy that's true but to say that the Workers Party
has no position a major issue that is not true I
think we did state our position in Parliament
with debate we debate her major policy vigorously we
didn't oppose all the policies but where we think that
there is a need for us to oppose adding
concern the future of Singapore like the population white paper we do so
so we stay opposition on important issues and we didn't oppose four
things that we think are doing right he said not
enough
is useful to bring it down to something very specific
let's come back to the population white paper
during the debate the position taken by the Workers Party is that enough is
enough zero growth we have continued to grow I
have not heard the Workers Party demand zero growth today
do you still demand that or do you now think that we should
allow SMEs to survive in
Singapore
we had made a calculation at a point time of
debating the population white paper and if you
continue to allow the following workers to grow
we were it will be untenable in the future
generation future population growth and they buy we
decided that we need to keep the population
number in check and one way of doing it of course is to
freeze the foreign workers growth in number our
calculation was that probably between that existing number of
the foreign worker you can still move around
with some sectors I mean only so much of foreign worker and
thereby you can still get by with the zero
population jir√ pour on worthless bro we understand
perfectly the possibility and the tradeoff that is our
position at a point in time we have not
objected subsequently or grieve the government fault why are not doing it because that's our
view that it should have zero population growth
but the government decided otherwise there's a way of doing it
we have said our peace but we have to
respect the decision or a government to move on
but our message has got across we cannot sub
sin continuously the kind of population group plan the government is our planning
and I'm glad to hear today that you know Prime Minister saying that
we are the government is the king of a serious view
or tightening and watching the grow up population
madam Speaker after all this complicated explanation I don't know whether
miss alodia can still stands by what was said in Parliament in
the white paper debate last year because if he really does
after all the explanation he should say we have too many
foreign workers now sent home seventy
thousand then we will know where he stands
but after telling me that you can massage this and some people can do less
and others can do and we'll need more
that's easy to say who's going to do the
massaging of course the government and that is
the mark of a substandard
opposition
madam Speaker I disagree this is on the map of a
substance substandard position this is the map of an OP
responsible position not a gem of the government
allowing the government after giving our view debating it
allowing the government to move forward not to jam up the government so it is
a map of responsible government and a map of first world
Parliament
madam Speaker we have to call a spade a
spade if you have changed the position and
your previous position was wrong say so if
you hold by opposition have your guts to
reaffirm it and take their consequences but the
weasel Louie play with words avoid the issue
and then claim to be
responsible
that is what we fear can drive Singapore's
politics into the same place where every many other countries have